# aisahodzic.github.io
My personal website

<b>Website project</b>

Project Name: New Friends Film Premiere Website

Project Description: 

The project New Friends Film Premiere Website is a website that features the short movie “New Friends”. The main theme of the movie is the lack of socialization that people, especially students, encounter in quarantine. The movie and its theme stand as the main concept of the website. Besides offering the user to watch the movie itself, the website contributes to the concept of voicing out the students' concerns, especially those faced in quarantine. While the page is aimed to be open to the public, the desired audience is the NYUAD student body. The experience that I was striving to create is an environment with which the user can empathize, relate, and feel comfortable to later share their feelings about being quarantined in conversations. 

Process: 
The website was made with the main focus on the movie, which can be watched in workshops, courses, or in private. This required simplicity and straight-forwardness, without complex or overwhelming information, to leave the space for the user to feel and discuss the movie in their own fashion. The main page takes the user straight to the movie, after a couple of introductory sentences which impose the theme of friendships and socialization in isolation. The navigation takes the user to the “About” page in which they can learn more about the movie and film festival. The “Cast” page offers an insight into the cast crew while representing cast members as students with hobbies and interests to which other students can relate. The design of the page was very important to implement the chosen concepts. It has subtle hints towards the NYUAD community such as the chosen color palette with violet as the dominant color besides the achromatic colors. Also, the background image was chosen as it shows the sand dunes in the desert, specific to the university location. The interactive components keep the user engaged and contribute visually to the page design. 

Reflection/Evaluation: 
The final working version represents a successful realization of the initial concept. The design ideas and solutions used to communicate the main message to the user have been changing throughout the process of building the page. The website content highlights the narrative of quarantine and friendships while incorporating interactivity and creativity, which was one of the main goals. The page provides a well-designed movie premiere site, informs the user about the movie, the festival and the cast. Hence, the initial concept and goals have been achieved. Further developments such as an additional feature of leaving the comments after watching the movie or forming a dialogue room can be realized in the future. 




<b>Comic Project Documentation</b>

Project Name: The Pilot’s Journey 

Project Description: During the pandemic where many restrictions are taking place, we might focus more on how the pandemic is affecting us rather than think about others. Moreover, some people have taken a very responsible and brave role to help others during this pandemic, which we forget to appreciate. We recognized that pilots fall into this category since their role of conducting repatriation flights to bring people back to their home countries at the spike of pandemics was very important. While there are travel restrictions about which people complain because they can’t travel and have fun, the pilots are the rare ones who must continue fling and thus see the serious situation as it is on different continents. Since people can’t travel right now, we strived to create a feeling of flying together with the pilot to satisfy their wishes to travel, only to arrive in a country location and realize that lives have changed drastically across the globe, from touristic hubs to empty squares. 

Process: 
To implements described concepts and create the wanted experience, we first created images of city landscapes with the symbols for that country/continent. This makes it easy for the user to receive a message of where the pilot is located, as included landmarks are popular and recognizable. We used Adobe Illustrator to create content that is characteristic for comics, with vibrant colors to evoke the feeling of wakefulness and activity, chat bubbles for communication, and characters in the frontline for them to appear closer to the user. The scrolling down gives an illusion of flying through clouds and arriving at a location. Moreover, when the user wishes to travel further, they are instructed to click on the airplane in the skies which symbolizes the next flight. This click activates the clouds which come from left and right to cover the current slide, giving the experience of moving away from the prior location to the sky and clouds, which happens when we fly higher in the skies. After clouds, the button “press to land” appears, which contributes to the user experience of the user’s travel from the pilot’s perspective. This button expands the user’s view, giving the feeling of “unlocking” a new location.  In each location, the pilot touches upon the current situation in the country or continent through communication in the chat bubble, which reflects the common comments that are specific to the pandemic in that location. This conversational approach helps users relate to the character and reflect on the pandemic without inducing panic and the information overload. The illusion of time passing was created by providing the sequence of panel content that corresponds to the timeline of events of how the pandemic has been evolving, starting from China and then moving on to Europe, the USA, etc.
 
Reflection/Evaluation: 
While the general topic being the pilot traveling during a pandemic stay the same, our initial idea focused more on the struggles of each individual in terms of adapting to a pandemic. This idea evolved more into traveling with the pilot and placing the important role of a pilot and a user traveling together with him in the main focus. Similarly, we intended to create a user experience of scrolling down through the timeline of events in the start, and while that feature is still incorporated, our user experience now focuses more on the feeling of flying and traveling. The experience of flying with the pilot through clouds and across locations has been successfully addressed and achieved in the final working version. This feature was not planned in the initial project’s expectations, but as the project was evolving, this feature has been recognized as a solution in creating a user’s experience of the flying trip and has been developed. The goal to include interactivity and user involvement was met through the use of buttons, which initiates the movements of objects such as clouds and airplanes, and scrolling, which gives the ability to be in the skies and landing to the user. Another important aspect is the scrolling limit, as the user needs to stop by each location, move to the clouds, and only if the click the “Press to land” button, they can move further. This fulfills the purpose of having to stop by each place, listen to the character, observe the environment, be present in a location, and only when the clouds cover the sky, have the ability to move further which evokes the feeling of control in travel. I believe that we have met the main goals and expectations of our project, and successfully incorporated them into the final working version. 

